Let's see how to use Spring Data MongoDB.
The first step is to specify the URI to connect to the server.
As you can see, Spring Data uses Mongo driver under the covers.
Next, a class is defined to represent the patient document.
The @Document tells Spring Data that this is
a document and it should be in a collection named patients.
The @Id annotation denotes the object ID for the record.
The rest of the fields are mapped as this.
Finally, a repository is created for the patient document.
The Mongo repository has methods for basic CRUD operations on a document.
I have a basic springboard application here with a command line runner.
You can also see the enabled Mongo repositories which tells
springboard that this application is going to use Spring Data MongoDB.
The command line runner does something very simple.
It creates a patient record, saves it,
and uses another method from the repository to read it,
read the same record using its first name.
Lets run this class to check if the repository works correctly.
No headers and we also see the patient document that we just inserted and read back.
Let's head to the Mongo Shell.
Do you notice the underscore class field here?
This class field contains the fully qualified name of the class
that tells Spring Data which class to create when the document is loaded.
The class field contains the fully qualified name of the class
Did you see how simple that was?
No need to write the boilerplate of creating a client and working with documents.
This is the advantage of using a higher level abstraction like Spring Data.